welcome to the inside the sales playbook
show where on each and every episode
we dive in to the actual sales processes
the plays the strategies
working for sales teams today no high
level overview no fluff we get into the
weeds
of what some of the fastest growing and
most successful sales teams are doing in
business to drive revenue
and grow their businesses and in this
episode we've got something let's call
it the inception episode
where i'm on sam dunning's platform mark
evans here
host of the inside the sales playbook
show interviewing sam
on his podcast for my podcast there's a
lot going on here but we're so excited
for those of you that are tuning in
and i am so pumped to have mr sam on the
show sam
welcome to the inside the sales playbook
show hey mark thanks very much good to
chat again dude i'm excited to have our
conversation today
yeah i'm thrilled to have you on my show
sam was kind enough to have me on his
back i want to say it was about a month
ago or so back in december
i felt like we really hit it off maybe
that's just one-sided online i really
had a great time with sam
i thought we had a great conversation
and i really felt like
how sam is approaching sales how's he's
how he is approaching
credibility building rapport building
celebrity
if you will is really interesting really
exciting
and a lot of really interesting concepts
that i think can be applied to sales
today so real quick on sam i wrote up a
quick little bio
sam is the co-founder and a really
success of a really successful digital
marketing agency in the uk
called web choice uk he's also the first
european
guest that i've had so across the pond
sam
we're excited to have you guys yeah our
pleasure well he's also the
uh he's also the co-host he's also the
host i'm sorry of the top ranked podcast
sam's business growth show
and he said guest on like john barrows
jeb blount and of course yours truly as
well so
sam let's get right into it man excited
to have you on here
cheers dude looking forward to it yeah
me too well sam i've you know gotten to
know you a little bit
i know you're a really smart guy uh just
a ton of fun
you build great relationships with
people but of all the things that you
could have done
then why the hell did you even choose
sales how do you even get into this
crazy game of sales
it's a long old story my friend i'll try
and give you the short and snappy
version
as i know i've told on a few shows now
but um
in short i i got thrown into it
so if if i take down the the really
really embarrassing story that i haven't
told many people
is back when i was probably 16 17
maybe 18. i used to love online gaming
namely world of warcraft
yeah okay we addicted to computer gaming
thankfully we've got a kid now so i
haven't got any time to do any of that
kind of stuff plus i'll run a company
plus i want a podcast i'm way too busy
with that kind of stuff you also love it
i i used to love the online gaming
anyway um my mom's like sam you're
gaming way too much you need to get a
job
and basically dragged me around town
making me i'm handing my cv my cover
letter to a load of shops
and the one shop that took me on was a
camera shop called jessups
um and basically yeah consumer selling
cameras camera kit camera equipment to
consumers so that was my first taste
i handed my cv had the interview got the
job and that was my first taste of sales
unfortunately i absolutely hated it so i
really did not like dealing with the
general public
mainly because they were really rude and
whenever you know the classic cells
clerk you go up to a person you ask the
stupid question how
are you doing or how can i help and they
say i'm absolutely fine i don't need
your help
um when we all know now after doing
sales for a while that's probably not
the best
first question to ask people um but yeah
ended up doing that for a while
got a bit annoyed because there was no
real incentives so even though we were
trying to sell
this equipment selling these add-ons
like memory cards and insurance plans
all this good stuff
there was no real bonus plan so it was
just like you can have a base wage but
you need to start as much as you can
it's like
don't really want to be doing this and
on top of that we had a manager
that was just pushing us so hard with no
real rewards
and then one day my cousin tom who's now
one of the part owners of webchoice with
me
came along and said look sam there's a
digital marketing company and
i'm starting working and we actually
need a guy to help us with sales and
project management
do you want an interview i said yes the
next day had the interview
and got the job there and then and just
quit my
my um camera shop job and
there's a lot of back and forth in
between so he has gone by i've left and
come back to web choice many times
almost joined the army along the way
worked in a call center for a little
while selling ink cartridges over the
phone which is really good experience
working to targets and that kind of
stuff and then eventually came back to
web choice and um worked my way up to
sales manager and then became part of
the
the owner team so now now work as a
sales director
that is pretty awesome and from looking
at the linkedin
profile of the company right you've got
i think 20 plus employees or so
and seems to be consistently growing so
i'd love to get your perspective
on what do you think is really
separating the
good from um great sales-driven type of
organizations especially now as we're
trying to
adapt the sales process maybe people
have a work from home type of sales
force
what do you think's really separating
good and poor you know sales driven
organizations from the really great ones
that are thriving right now
from a company perspective i'd say
it's one having a multi-channel approach
so not putting all your eggs in one
basket i.e
if you've got a sdr team you've got a
team of people generating appointments
not solely relying on outbound cold
callers to to generate your leads and
generate your appointments
but yeah by all means there's nothing
wrong with doing that but then you need
to look at other channels
be that inbound marketing so be that
things like seo
for long term rankings to get your
website on page one of google be that
paid ads to get that
fast traffic to your site to generate
leads be that doing a podcast
be that doing webinars be that going big
on social media i think the companies
that do it best
not just invest in all the channels of
um of
marketing and of ways to generate sales
opportunities but they really understand
where their ideal customers hang out
so in our case we're selling to mainly
businesses
so we understand that they're going to
be on linkedin they're going to be
searching on google
so they're going to be seo is worthwhile
they're going to be clicking ads
ads are worthwhile and then likewise you
can probably reach them on the phone
reach on the email so they really
understand exactly where their customers
hang out and invest in those channels
to then bring more leads to their team
to then be able to grow the sales side
of things
makes sense yeah that makes a lot of
sense what so you talked about this
multi-channel approach let's say we're
let's say we're talking to an
organization you're coaching an
organization that
is either just starting out or you know
wants to get more involved in
a digital marketing perspective what are
some of the
um like low-hanging fruit what's like
the five things that just about every
company could do today
um to get started on their digital
marketing journey
sure so i'd say probably first and
foremost
as an organization or even if if you're
a solopreneur entrepreneur
you need a solid website so or at least
a landing page a solid site is a
foundation
to um basically showcase what you could
do
how you can help people and allow people
to get in touch with you um because if
not if it's not
clearly showcasing exactly what you do
the problem or the pain you solve
how you can make people's or businesses
life better as soon as people land on it
the chances are people are gonna
get bored head to another site that is
clear and that does
take them on the journey that they want
to go on or just get confused right
or get confused yeah clarity is king i'm
preaching this so much at the moment
clarity is king in your messaging and
whether you're marketing whether you're
in sales if you're not clear on what you
can do the problem you solve
and how to do business with you what's
the point you're just going to lose
people
um so yeah having a solid website that's
nice and fast it looks great appeals to
your target audiences it's clear
and it's easy to get in touch with you
book a demo whatever you want people to
do
quick wins after that i mean if you
really want to bring on board some
traffic some inbound inquiries inbound
opportunities for your sales team fast
you probably want to look at some paid
ad revenues so whether that's looking at
things like google ads
whether that's things like looking at
facebook ads um or instagram ads
depending on when you're where your
customers hang out
there's some real quick hitting ways to
get ads up get traffic to your site and
get some inbound leads flowing in
yeah um carol mark do you have a
question
yeah one question with that so one of
the things i've heard from other people
is they say hey i'm interested in google
ads or facebook ads
but i'm not sure what needs to happen on
the back end so it sounds like
the first starting point have a great
website where they can what you do so
they can understand what you do how you
help people and how they can get in
touch with you
is there anything else to a site that
you should invest in or any other sort
of marketing collateral that one should
invest in
before they take that next step with ads
uh specifically facebook and google
definitely so so let's say you're doing
any kind of investigating investment for
your site whether that's with your own
internal marketing team or whether
that's paying an
agency to do it or even learning about
yourself and then spending your own
money
um you need as well as having that clear
messaging on your website
or your landing page especially if
you're directly paid ads you might want
to consider having standalone landing
pages
so people don't click off to other pages
and get distracted from your message
however as well as being clear you want
to build trust
so no one's going to inquire of you if
they don't trust your business can help
them
um so ways you can do that is utilizing
things like social proof
um so what do i mean by that i mean
things like reviews
case studies testimonials accreditations
all that good stuff that you can weave
without um in between your pages
just so people can say oh look there's a
case study similar to the project we're
trying to do
um there's a testimonial of someone who
had a similar experience to us and it
just
builds this layer of trust it's kind of
like telling a story
so someone could be really close to
wanting to do business with you then see
that testimonial and that's the tipping
point that makes them
um book a call or book a demo or
whatever your action you want to take
so that's that's really important that
trust element and just like when you're
selling to people
if they if they don't trust that you're
actually helpful you're not asking the
right
questions um you're not talking about
what's useful and you're not just
talking about yourself
um similar kind of thing with marketing
right yeah
so yeah doing paid ads is a quick way
whether that's google whether that's
facebook instagram whatever channels you
want to use it where your customers hang
out
seo more of a longer term strategy so
more of the organic results
more um you've obviously got the paid
listings at the top and bottom of google
in between that you've got the juicy
organic listings
so that's more of a long term strategy
that you can kind of start setting up by
working on your website content by
working off your website by doing things
articles press releases infographics
animated videos all that good stuff
over time will build up quality links to
get you that all important
top spot on google um but then there's
i mean that's two or three ideas mark
and then you've got three things
which um could be like setting up your
own podcast like we've done
um perhaps setting up a webinar um or
setting up an email list i mean all
those three
three things are pretty much free of
charge you just need a bit of kit
ie uh a microphone headset a little bit
of software on your website but most of
that's open source anyway
uh which we can dive into any of those
three in a stack you're good to go
i love that yeah let's talk about the
podcast because i really like
how you have used and well from my
perspective right it looks like you use
the podcast as a way to
um increase your credibility but what
are some other benefits and maybe what
are some of the other reasons why
you're pursuing this strategy versus
right all the other thousands of other
things one could do
with digital marketing especially with
the staff and expertise that you all
have
yeah podcast sort of things i mean i
started it just over a year ago and
really
it was i never started it as a business
kind of thing i did it more out of my
own curiosity
and just the fact that i wanted to
interview people that i really admired
so initially started out from a sales
angle
so literally just go on sales expert
sales leaders
that were smarter than me and i wanted
to learn from so some of the very first
guests were
a guy called daniel disney who runs a
platform called the daily sales that's
one of the biggest
sales entertainment channels on linkedin
he's also a really good on social
setting in linkedin
then i got brandon bonanson over at
seamless.ai
and then it just followed on just
basically asking these people questions
getting them one
and what i found along the way mark is
that rather than when you kind of pitch
someone cold on linkedin they tend to
just ignore your message
um unless you've crafted it really well
or less you start more of a conversation
before you go for your pitch
which is always encouraged um because we
were asking them to come on the podcast
it was just like hey hey man really love
what you're doing really love your
recent show with xyz
i'd love to have you on my show 99.9 of
the time people say yes when you invite
onto a podcast
so it started off as just a bit of fun
just a learning exercise
but then i realized that as we slowly
built an audience
as we pushed out the company web choice
our digital marketing company
um started to give me one great content
to put on linkedin
um it started two a lot of people
messaged me saying sam you've come out
from nowhere i've never seen you before
you're interviewing all these people
that are pretty good at business pretty
good at sales pretty good marketing like
why are you doing it um so as a result i
learned a lot from the people that i
interviewed
um i learned that it was quite easy to
get people on the show
i learned that it could give a bit of
promotion for our company so we started
getting inbound inquiries for webchoice
and also it just helped me learn tons
from the guest and just gave me a lot of
content to use on on linkedin in terms
of
the good thing about podcast is you can
repurpose them so much
so you can do one 30-minute interview
and from that you've obviously got
the podcast if you record the video
you've got the podcast for youtube
as well as the audio channels and then
you can chop that up so you can get nice
little one minute two-minute promos
that you can promote that your guests
can promote and it
can also help um encourage trust
um within both the guests and also
yourself so whenever there's there's
like a nice one or two minutes spill
that you're talking about a top you know
a lot about in your industry and your
sector
that can again build that layer of trust
when you post out on social media
or whatever channel you want to push it
so there's there's a lot there yeah
in in short it's very very fun and if
you're thinking about doing a podcast
it's 100 worth it for many many reasons
and many benefits
yeah it really seems like it and i've
known that just from the show that i've
started here recently
where we're primarily on youtube but
we're also going to be expanding into
the podcast universe as well
on how yeah it you don't have to have
you don't have to be a household name
in order to get household names in sales
right and that message i really loved
how you put it off there
before how you explained it on how you
know a traditional cold
outreach is met with negativity right
like 99
of the time but when you ask and when
you flip that switch and say like hey
can i interview you the responses are
almost immediate and they're pretty
incredible they're very warm they're
very welcoming even these individuals
that
are writing multiple books um and
getting noticed on on some pretty large
platforms
are very open to being interviewed so i
totally agree with that
now sam is so does business just come as
a way of putting out content
um or are there other any other lovers
that you're pulling in or to
make the podcast a part of the revenue
driver at webchoice
yeah so it's it's never something we've
pushed too hard i mean one more thing
before we drive into that is that there
is another way you can go your podcast
that we
did we have done a little bit and a guy
called james carbury a company called
sweet fish media i believe
kind of came up with this idea is if
instead of just interviewing people that
you're interested in what you
specifically target
people you want to do business with to
build off that relationship by getting
them on your podcast so say for example
your company typically deals with
um businesses that are i don't know 50
to 100 employees
and you typically are looking to speak
to their marketing directors
in let's say software as a service tech
companies so you
go onto linkedin you go into whatever
tool you use to source this this data
you find those marketing directors in
those type of companies and you reach
out to them you
perhaps you check out their linkedin
profile you say look i really enjoyed
your post on this
would love to have you on my podcast so
you can share your knowledge on xyz
chances are they're going to say yes you
get them on your podcast for a half hour
you're promoting them
you've built a relationship then over
time that you can nurture and eventually
you maybe do business with some of these
people so that's another strategy to
think about just before we jump into
the content side of things which i know
works for a lot of organizations to to
get new business opportunities yeah i
really really love that i think that's
really excellent
um anything else in that kind of realm
you mentioned about some of the content
as well but is there any other kind of
thing that you want to wrap that that
podcast part of the segment here
yeah i mean i think it's not being too
salesy so i mean we
we started off our podcast like i said
about a year ago didn't have any ads to
start with
um recently took on a sponsor so we just
have a small ad like halfway in between
i tend to wear my web choice t-shirt if
i'm being on video
and if people ask me about marketing
then i'll i'll
add my two cents i'll add my opinion
when i'm talking to guests but i don't
want to
shove it down their neck generally i
want to i want to give as much value to
the audience
and share actionable tips from our
guests and then pipe in with my own
thoughts
here and there so i think it's getting
that balance of not being salesy being
genuinely curious about your guests
making sure what you do making sure you
understand who your audience are
so in my case i'm talking to small to
medium-sized business owners perhaps
sales and marketing professionals
so making sure you understand your niche
and then giving value to them
not trying to sell it too hard um
obviously give a bit of promotion to
perhaps in the middle at the end
and obviously put the links in the
descriptions that you do
and then feel free to promote it across
whatever social media channels you want
linkedin tends to be really good for us
so i think it's over time it's it's
going to have that compound
interest effect so if you keep doing it
eventually you'll start to see results
yeah what do you say to people who who
could maybe be viewing your platform
knowing that hey you're already a year
in because i know that this happens to a
lot of people right they see you a year
and
they're like wow sam's got these
episodes he's interviewing these
top-level people
he also has these promos and these
teasers and this social media graphic
um you know what would you tell someone
who's like i there's no way i can do
that there's no way
i've got the talent for it or can even
get started out what's your advice to
someone who's maybe like yes
i want to do that but i'm scared and
don't know where to start
yeah yeah yeah it's a good question um i
was
i guess i'm a bit of the opposite and i
tend to just jump into things
um but i know not everyone's like that
so
start with something small so perhaps
perhaps start with people you know in
your network so if you're thinking
i want to do podcasting but i'm not
quite ready to do it with people i don't
know
so maybe into your past clients to start
with or past customers you've already
got a relationship with them
look can i set up like a 15 minute zoom
call and that's going to be useful
anyway because they might even give you
a case study video
or they might give you some really
useful information and then
ramp it up once you once you're happy
once you're comfortable you don't even
have to film it once you're handful
either being in front of the microphone
or with the camera then start doing like
we said the cold outreach
reaching out to the people you want to
interview um and getting onto it really
and perhaps listen to a few podcasts
beforehand
um that are similar to the one you're
thinking of setting up whether that's
marketing sales or something else
get that experience um or if you've got
any questions i'm always happy to speak
to people that have
got any queries around the kit to use
how to reach out to people and that kind
of stuff always happy to
help out awesome love that let's see the
transition a little bit so you mentioned
before sam that you're the sales manager
at webchoice
um and so i know you've got several
sales people um but let's talk about
kind of your sales playbook right what
are some of the strategies processes
maybe techniques
not asking to reveal any trade secrets
but what's really working in your sales
team
today sure so i mean we're we're quite
fortunate at webchoice as we're a
digital marketing company a lot of our
inquiries tend to come inbound so
whether that's through our website or
whether that's for seo or our paid ads
and then as i do a lot with the podcast
i do a lot of linkedin i generate a lot
of conversations
through those platforms as well for the
content that we put out each and every
week
um in terms of what's working so
something i always drive
drive home quite a lot is i think great
discovery makes good sales
um so that that's one of my biggest
things i think if you can nail the
discovery stage process
if you can get that down to a t then
that's that's going to set you up for
the rest of the deal
so that's that's something i'm pretty
passionate about asking the right
questions the difficult questions the
hard questions up front
even if it is an inbound or outbound
opportunity doesn't
just because the leads come into your
website through your landing page or
through linkedin or through social media
it doesn't mean they're ready to buy it
doesn't even mean you're a good fit for
them
or you're they're a good fit for you so
just because someone's come to you
you still need to qualify properly um
doesn't mean you need to read a
spreadsheet of 2000 questions
um what it does mean is you need to have
an open honest conversation
and really explain from the start like
i'm going to ask a few questions to you
you're going to ask a few questions to
me probably about how we do business our
process and sash and then together
let's work out if it makes sense for us
to help you out discuss next steps
or if not let me know any stage we can
part ways friends
and i'll try and point you to a trusted
partner who i think can help you
so being more of a professional than
what i was guilty of in my earlier years
of just pushing driving for the sale
trying to get a deal done
even if we weren't the best fit and we
all know if you try and push really hard
for those kind of deals
it's going to bite you in the ass later
sooner or later for whatever reason
because you
sold it too cheap or it's not really a
product or service you do properly
or the customer didn't have the right
expectations so asking the tough
questions up front about where they want
to get to with it their goals and
objectives
where they see themselves in 12 months
time with it and
who else involved in the process the
decisions getting all that out the way
is really going to help you later in the
sales cycle that's that's just my two
cents
yeah is there a discovery question that
you ask every time that you really love
that our listeners could take and be
like oh that's a good one
yeah and i think i'm stealing this from
benjamin dennehy when i interviewed him
there's a couple really
um i think doing the upfront contract
that i just touched on there's quite
crucial
because it really builds trust from the
start and it shows them you're not just
another sales rep that's pushing for the
deal
you're actually giving them an out at
any stage and that's that
asking of you have some questions i'll
ask some questions and we'll see if this
is a good fit right now
is that accurate yeah usually i i say
something like look really excited to
chat today
um and typically this this i'm pretty
sure i stole this from benjamin there's
there's three things so once you've
once you've asked usually i'll start a
call saying look what's an ideal outcome
for today's conversation and then they
might say like i want to get quote i
want to get a time frame
i'm just looking at prices so then
you've already understand
straight away what they want to get out
of the call um then you'll usually ask
if it's inbound then you'll say how how
did you find us what prompted you to
reach out to us
just for your data so you can understand
your lead sources and
then i'll go on to say cool um well
there's typically three things that
could happen on this conversation the
first one is
you might not feel happy with me you're
not might might not feel comfortable
myself or our organization or what we do
absolutely fine feel free to let me know
at any stage won't take any offense we
can part ways friends
second thing that could happen is that
after i've asked you a few questions and
you've asked me a few questions
we may feel that we're not the best
suited company to yourself so in that
case is it all right if i say look i
don't think we can help this time
but is it okay if i try and introduce
you to a partner or
company um freelancer that can help you
out i'll probably say yes
thirdly it may be that after we've had a
good discussion
we both feel that it is a good match and
we can help you out today
so if that is the case can we just spend
a minute or two at the end of our chat
discussing a relevant next step and
they're all
nearly i don't think anyone so far i
said no so they're gonna say yes you're
setting
you're setting the foundation you're
setting that up front contract before
you do anything
um and it just makes you sound
professional it makes you sound like
you're not just trying to push them into
a deal
and you've got a chance to back out at
any time and no one will take any
offense
yeah i really love that i think that's
fantastic so that that really helps and
that just structures conversations
because sometimes
sales conversations outbound with
inbound opportunities can just be up and
down all over the shop it gives you a
bit of structure too cool
or your video cool and then another one
i think i've i've taken this from
someone else as well
most most of my questions i've taken
from books or someone else um
is once you've once you've kind of
chatted through their goals and
objectives
and you've probably about a quarter of
the way through the conversation a good
question to ask is look imagine we're
six months down the line line from now
12 months down the line line from now
what would it take for you to say
working with sam working with webchoice
or working with mark working with sales
kit
was a really really good move and
they'll they'll just open up to you
they'll tell you all these things
they'll be like well i need to get here
i need to be this i need to do xyz
you can prod in you can dig a little
deeper once they give you the answers so
they might say look i want to get to 10k
revenue
um i want to increase my revenue by 10k
next in the next six months per month or
something like that that's
a low figure but they might say
something and you say okay why is that
important to you
and they'll be like um well we need to
be able to hit this milestone
to get unexceeded investment and you say
okay what what happens if that doesn't
happen
well we might have to start firing stuff
so you're really digging into their
pains and their issues
you're going deeper below surface level
so yeah asking those tough questions is
going to give you a lot that you need
later along in the sales process when it
comes to presenting putting together
proposals and all that good stuff
i absolutely love that and so many
people stop at just that high level like
well what's your goal right well we
won't get to ten thousand revenue okay
great
next question right but you're really
finding the juice right or you're really
finding the core motivation when you ask
those follow along questions sam i think
that's not only a great way to tee up a
conversation
and to really create that rapport of hey
this isn't like any other conversation
as well
but then to just have a very clear and
definitive agenda here's the you know
three things that could happen here's
what we're going to talk about at the
end
i love that sam and i think just about
anybody whether you're selling a service
a product
a software tool anybody could really use
that and start getting some results i
really love that sam
really recommend it it just just makes
things cleaner gives you both an hour
any time
and um i think it helps build a little
layer of trust as well
especially if you're selling over the
phone without video yeah i would totally
agree with that well sam i think that's
a great point i want to uh pivot and
close out with our final five
so these are five rapid fire questions
that i'll be asking and you answer
are you ready let's do it awesome here
we go let's start with your favorite
sales related movie oh that's tough
everybody i really like boiler room i do
like willary
classic classic classic favorite sales
book
um you can't teach a kid to ride a bike
at a seminar by sandler
love that one uh question number three
what do you know now that you wish you
would have known when you first got into
sales and that can either be at the
camera shop or uh
or at web choice what do i wish um
not every sale is a good sale
hard hard one lesson there uh favorite
purchase can
be either business or personal of 2020
under a hundred dollars
under a hundred bucks who try to
remember
um i guess one of the mics this this mic
was a bit more but last year's mic was
under 100 bucks i think
we'll go with it and we have a favorite
follow or executive or anybody on social
media that you're following um either
business or personal that you really
recommend
too many too too many on linkedin then
stop
um let's just pick will baron for now
just because i love his podcast and i
know you've been on there as well mark
he's great podcast you need to listen to
that
highly recommend that one highly
recommend that sam if our listeners want
to connect with you where can they do so
yeah sure so i'd love for you to connect
with me on linkedin just say you saw me
on mark's show
so sam dunning d double ning is my
surname
please do check out business growth show
wherever you get your podcast we
interview business leaders each and
every week to provide actionable tips on
marketing
sales and to grow your business and
finally if you're tired of hunting for
clients
and you're frustrated your website isn't
generating a consistent volume of
inbound opportunities
leads and sales give us a shout
webchoiceuk.com
awesome sam this was a blast as always
as our conversations always are that's
mr sam dunning with webb choice uk
sam thank you so much for taking us
inside your sales playbook
cheers dude good to chat mark take care
thanks